0) Core Rules <br>
0.1) GOOD FAITH: Act in good faith to the rules. The spirit of a rule supersedes its wording. <br>

0.2) NO SLURS: Do not use slurs in either IC or OOC channels. Slurs and variations of them will be met with a permanent ban.<br>

0.3) NO SPAM: Do not spam OOC or IC.<br>

0.4) NO OOC HARASSMENT: There is zero tolerance for OOC harassment. This can range from guilting people to roleplay with you, to slandering by making baseless claims about a faction, player or the server; if you are asked to stop by anyone, consider that an official warning.<br>

0.5) NO OOC METAGRUDGING: OOC metagruding players is strictly forbidden; it must have grounding in IC reasoning from the current round. Exceptions can be made in escalating to violent force over past rounds against characters who acknowledge escalatable situations from previous rounds in the current round. If we find you are explicitly targeting a player, the consequences are more severe.<br>

0.6) NO UNAUTHORIZED INFO SHARING: Do not share conversations or player information from this server in any form without express permission from the player/players and only in appropriate channels. This is especially true when done in bad faith.<br>

0.7) NO TICKET SHARING: Don’t argue semantics or decisions with staff, if you have a comment or complaint use the forum or contact Staff Oversight via DM; discord, dead chat, and ooc are not appropriate to talk about your ticket.<br>

0.8) KEEP THINGS IC: Do not attack first or give someone a reason to attack you ICly then complain OOCly (Either in ahelps or in OOC/LOOC) when they take you up on the reason you gave them. Do not let what happens in character affect how you treat others OOCly, especially in a negative way. <br>

0.9) DO NOT HOARD ITEMS: Take what you need, and leave the rest for other people. Selling them is one thing, but locking tons of weapons in a room and not using them is another. Factions are permitted to collect weapons for their other members within reason.<br>

0.10) DO NOT EXPLOIT MECHANICS: Do not use items/mechanics for a non-intended , or grossly unrealistic purpose in order to gain a mechanical advantage. For example, reviving people using long since decayed body parts, using gas grenades with reagents that instantly kill or stun other players, or using the capacity of a QRPD to carry enormous amounts of ammo.<br>

<br>
1) High Roleplay Standards<br>
1.1) ROLEPLAY IS #1: You are expected to RP first and foremost, play a character that could believably be found in a Fallout game. Treat this server as a story to be told, not a game to be won. We want players to ask permission before making characters who are synth, who were part of the Enclave, or otherwise bush boundaries on what is realistic.<br>

1.2) DO NOT BREAK IMMERSION: Slang words or netspeak are not allowed in-character. Your character must behave like a mortal, fearing pain and death, and must have realistic flaws. Whilst ERP is allowed on this server, hypersexualised characters to the point of breaking immersion are not permitted.<br>

1.3) DO NOT LET IC BLEED TO OOC: Do not IC in OOC, do not OOC in IC. Do not use information found out through OOC means to influence IC situations. Do not allow things that happen ICly affect you and others OOCly; you are expected to be mature enough to make a separation between the two.<br>

1.4) NO MARY SUES: Do not abuse knowledge of game mechanics in a way that is counter to what is realistic and reasonable for your character. Your character should have strengths and weaknesses, and just because you as a player know how to do something does not mean your character does. Just because your character CAN do something does not mean you SHOULD.<br>

1.5) WRITE PROPERLY: As a high roleplay server with a focus on writing, you must be able to meet a minimum standard of writing to play here, including punctuation and grammar.<br>

1.6) NON-ENGLISH CHARACTERS: You are allowed to play a character not able to speak english, but must be able to communicate in english OOCly and are required to make yourself understood with robust emotes during escalation in english.<br>

1.7) NAME YOUR CHARACTER CORRECTLY: Name your character appropriate for an HRP server. Reference names are not allowed. If it is recognizable from any medium it is a breach of this rule. <br>

1.8) DO NOT RESPAWN AS THE SAME CHARACTER AFTER DYING: Do not respawn as the same character or anyone similar or related to them in the same round your character has been killed.<br>

1.9) FLAVOR TEXT ETIQUETTE: Your flavor text should not contain any information about the character that is not discernible from a glance (personality/behaviour/backstory/relationships). Overtly NSFW descriptions should NOT be in your flavor text, but may be in an external document linked within and clearly marked.<br>

1.10) ROUND EVENTS ARE CANON: Consequences for in-character actions will be enforced. Things only become de-canonized if a rule has been broken, or for OOC mistakes. If you are uncomfortable with the fate of your character you may RESPECTFULLY discuss it with those involved. Only by unanimous consent can the previous canon be removed.<br>

1.11) CHARACTER DEATH ETIQUETTE: Player deaths are the only exception to cross-round canon, and are to be treated as very serious injuries rather than deaths in the next round. If the cause of death is something unsurvivable, it should be retconned into something more reasonable. Do not refer to the fact that your character has died in past rounds.<br>

1.12) BE CONSCIENTIOUS WHEN ROUND-ENDING CHARACTERS: Actions that would destroy a body or otherwise render it infeasible to revive for the entirety of the round MUST be accompanied by a roleplay scene and sufficient in-character motivation. This also includes crossing or hanging a body within a place that would require a large skirmish to retrieve (Right outside of your base.) If you do kill someone in a skirmish or fight, you are to leave their bodies where they fall and loot them there. You may not take their ID or base uniform. <br>

<br>
2) Combat and Escalation<br>
2.1) NO EORG: No End Of Round Griefing, the round ending is not a license to suspend the rules. Act accordingly. The only place EORG is acceptable is on the train after it’s departure and arrival at centcom.<br>

2.2) ESCALATION ETIQUETTE:  The guidelines and rules for escalation are as follows.; <br>
Make it clear that you are transitioning from RP to mechanics with a /say with intention or a robust emote, and give your opponent ample time to respond before making that transition.<br>
-Do not shoot a player for not complying immediately, and do not draw and fire wordlessly simply because they have drawn their weapons.<br>
-Disarms, aggressive grabs, handcuffing, bolaing, throwing people and all other actions that are mechanically aggressive must be escalated through roleplay if fighting has not already started.<br>
-Combat should NOT be a surprise to either party. Combat should start after all players involved turn on combat indicators and should be used to mark that there is a current fight going on. <br>

2.3) SELF DEFENSE: If at any time another party attacks you, you may respond in kind. Do what is necessary to defend yourself. However, do not kill someone over a stray bullet.
Additionally, visibly calling for backup, assistance or calling out the name and/or location of their opponent via long-range communication  during an ongoing escalation is considered a hostile action and the opposing party may, at this point, engage them in self-defense.<br>

2.4) HALT ORDER ETIQUETTE: If you have issued a valid halt order, provide a condition, or have begun to escalate and your target does not comply, runs away, or calls for help over the radio, you may use lethal force. Pointing is not a valid halt order, and cannot be used as escalation on its own. <br>

2.5) RE-ENGAGEMENT ETIQUETTE: Escalation is maintained between encounters. However, you must make it clear that you are re-engaging. You may not break away from an engagement, and re-engage wordlessly several minutes later to gain an advantage.<br>

2.6) COMBAT JOIN IN: You may jump into an ongoing fight to assist one party only if you are either both wearing faction uniform, that has to be clearly visible on your sprite and if you make it perfectly clear to the participants which side you are stepping in on, and have a valid reason to do so.<br>

2.7) ASSISTING IN COMBAT IS ENGAGEMENT: Aiding one side of an ongoing fight (dragging their body away, healing them, etc.) opens you up to hostile action from their enemy. This does not apply if the fight is already over.<br>

2.8) CAPTURE ETIQUETTE: If you have captured someone, it’s expected that someone supervises and roleplays with their character unless they OOCly consent to being left alone either imprisoned or doing a repetitive task. Do not ghost or log out to avoid consequences after being captured. You may request execution or an alternative outcome in LOOC.<br>

<br>
3) Raids and Bases<br>
3.1) RAIDING DEFINITION: A raid is defined as any action that involves violent entry into a base, with intentions to force the other side to capitulate. Raids require in-character justification and should be for the purpose of creating an interesting story, not for an OOC desire to kill people or simply being bored. You must be conscientious of faction-wiping and be aware of how it will affect things for the rest of the round, and be prepared for the post-raid roleplay.<br>

3.2) FACTION AND PLAYER BASE DEFINITIONS: The Wayfarer’s Village, The Vault, the Brotherhood of Steel Bunker, the Legion Camp, Khan Camp, Ripley, and the NCR Base are all considered faction bases. Any building with a locked door is a player base and is subject to the raid rules. This includes bolted airlocks. Locked doors inside of a faction base are still subject to raid rules, as long as any member of that faction is involved in creating that locked door. Do not break down a locked door without staff permission. <br>

3.3) RAIDING PROCEDURE: If you wish to raid another faction and have sufficient IC reason to do so, you can ahelp for permission. Staff online will judge your request and grant it, sometimes with certain conditions or objectives attached to make things more fair and fun for everyone. If your purpose of the raid is to get certain items that were failed in negotiations to receive, then you may get only the items you need and get out. If your purpose is for any other reason we ask you not steal armor, uniforms, spare radios, workbenches/workbench circuit board, supplies so that new players who join have a chance to recover. If someone lets you know in LOOC that they have ahelped for raid perms, do not escalate the situation further until the question of the perms has been resolved. <br>

3.4) BESIEGING ETIQUETTE: You may antagonize a faction at their gates, but you MUST receive raid permission from online staff before penetrating past the gates. If the faction escalates on you, you MAY NOT pursue them into their base without permission. This act is considered a SIEGE. Aggressively counter-attacking and losing does not mean the other faction has raided you; if your faction is outnumbered you are advised to tactically retreat into the base or risk the consequences.<br>

3.5) INFILTRATION ETIQUETTE: You are permitted to walk into an open base when not under siege or a raid, but doing so you accept any consequences that are associated with this decision. In order to steal or vandalize a player base, the INITIAL action must have an escalated scene with a member of the faction or owner of the base, before switching to mechanics. <br>

<br>
4) Factions<br>
4.1) KNOW AND FOLLOW THE LORE: If you are playing a faction, you are required to know the lore of that faction. By signing up for these roles you agree to follow the lore and canonical rules for these factions. This also includes wearing your faction equipment and being easily identifiable as said faction.<br>

4.2) NO UNREALISTIC INSUBORDINATION: Insubordination or disobeying orders from superiors may be punished with IC demotion or removal from the faction that persists cross-round. If this persists in an LRP way it is punishable OOCly.<br>
4.2.1) RESPECT IC PUNISHMENTS: If you receive a punishment in character that would be enforced by the faction, such as a demotion or being imprisoned, you must respect that this has occurred. Do not spawn in as the rank you were demoted from, do not wander around free if you are imprisoned, etc. If you think the action was inappropriate you may appeal it ICly or, if you believe it is an OOC problem, talk to a Loremaster.<br>

4.3) DO NOT DESERT WITHOUT REASON: Do not desert your faction because you are bored, or did not mean to join in the first place. Deserting your faction without proper roleplay and motivation will be handled with OOC measures. If your joining of the faction is accidental, ahelp and matrix.<br>

4.4) NO FACTION HOPPING: Do not play the same character in multiple factions or in vastly disparate roles. An IC change in faction or position must be thoroughly and properly roleplayed.<br>

4.5) PRIMARY FACTION DRUG USE: Use of combat chemicals to gain a mechanical advantage is prohibited in the four major factions; Vault, Legion, NCR, and Brotherhood of Steel. Using chems for roleplaying is permitted but may result in IC consequences.<br>

<br>
5) Mature Content<br>
5.1) BE AN ADULT: You must be 18+ to play here. There are no exceptions to this rule. <br>

5.2) ERP DOES NOT SUPERCEDE OTHER RP: ERP is permitted on Afterglow; however, it is not the purpose of the server. We are a HRP server first, and as such, consequences and canon from regular RP apply to ERP. If you are on-duty then you should not be ERPing, If your faction has an off-duty slot.<br>

5.3) DO NOT ERP GRIEF: That said, do not knowingly interrupt an RP scene without valid IC reasoning. Any interruptions to roleplay must be roleplayed in kind and have a firm in-character grounding. Valid IC reasoning includes dereliction of duty, or having previously been involved in escalation.<br>

5.4) BE CONSCIENTIOUS ABOUT ERP: Do not shame people for their kinks OOCly. If someone expresses they are uncomfortable in LOOC, do not make them more uncomfortable. <br>

5.5) NO TERMS OF SERVICE BREAKS: Any content expressly forbidden by the Discord terms of service is disallowed and should be brought to the immediate attention of staff. NO UNDER-18 OR CHILDLIKE CHARACTERS ARE PERMITTED - THIS INCLUDES PREGNANT CHARACTERS - UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCE.<br>

5.6) SENSITIVE CONTENT: Do not engage in non-consensual ERP scenes. Sensitive content should be performed using the subtle anti-ghost verb. Do not involve people in kinks without consent (e.g., ERP in public). Sexual impropriety done in private scenes is to be kept private and not brought into public roleplay under any circumstances.<br>

5.7) GRAPHIC ROLEPLAY OPT-OUT ETIQUETTE: At any time, you may choose to opt out of a scene that contains sexual or sensitive content.  Players are expected to use this in good-faith and not as a way to escape consequences or avoid being antagonized by others. If a player requests to break off from a scene, do so IMMEDIATELY. Failure to comply will not be tolerated. If they do not end the scene immediately, ahelp the situation.<br>